Hello and welcome to the lecture we're we're going to be creating a news reader app.
So the idea is that you'd come into an app like this with a bunch of news articles that you wanted to
read.
This one is about tech and you know you go ahead and you tap on one of these.
It's going to open up a new activity with a web browser inside of it and then you can you know scroll
through and see the information that comes through.
Again look here's one that comes through Twitter we can see all the cool stuff there should be saved
in as well a database.
And you should be able to get that now.
The source for information on this.
Let me go ahead and open up Safari.
Here is a Web site called Hacker News or news dot Y Combinator dot com is where new Y Combinator or
just search Hacker News that's going to take us to the appropriate place so there we go.
I must have spelled something wrong through there but this is a cool web site that shows a bunch of
kind of trending tech articles and there's an awesome API for this if you just search Hacker News API.
You're going to get this awesome link to get hub where you can go.
They have detailed out what it is you know that you want to do.
So for us essentially your call that you're looking for is you want to get the top stories so if you
just go ahead and click on this you get a result back like this that gives you a bunch article IDs then
what those article IDs IDs you can plug them into this you are.
So up here where it says 8 8 6 3 that's where you'd put in whatever current news item that you want
and then you'll get like the title that your L and that will help you create the reader.
So some important pieces of information for you to know if you're going to go out and do this on your
own.
Again any the help you can watch me but I think you can do this.
Go ahead.
Hit pause now.
All right.
Let's go ahead and get started with the new Android studio project.
We're just going to go ahead and call this one the news reader.
Go ahead and do all our standard default configurations and get this party started.
So really the first thing that we want to dive into with this app is we want to be able to access the
Hacker News API get to figure out how we can get all the stories.
So let's go ahead and open up a browser and see if we can't find the Hacker News API.
So I'm just going to search Hacker News API
and once I'm there look at this.
We've got some nice documentation here and it looks like this is going to be what we need in order to
get this.
So the basic idea with this API is that if you want to know the top stories and if you want to see what
the Web site looks like go to news dot Y Combinator dot com.
There we go and look it kind of shows you the top this gives you like the top 30 articles that have
been uploaded here.
But if you want to get that information let's look for it new top and best stories.
I think that's what we're looking for.
So if we want to do that and we look at this API hit it just gives us a bunch of these idea numbers
ID numbers and the ideas that you take these ID numbers and then if you ask for a specific ID item then
it's going to tell you more about it so let's see if we scroll up to the top here.
I believe this is it.
Yes.
So if we give it a particular item it's going to say hey you know this is the title.
This is the you are all connected with that that's where we're going to want to load the web page and
there's also the kids here forward talking about the comments and stuff and we're not going to worry
about the comments.
We just want to be able to let the user go look at all the different stories there.
So with this in place this is what we're aiming towards.
Let's go ahead and start building out the app.
So the first step for us is we want to put a list view on the very first activity of the app.
So we'll go ahead and give Android studio a second here to load.
But in the meantime let's go ahead and go down to containers and that list is what we want to lead the
existing text you will bring out that list view.
And yeah we'll go ahead hit all the pluses here have that fill up the screen and will simply call that
a list view.
They like to keep things simple here when we're working with this activity.
So once that's in place this app is going to be connected to an API so let's do this before we forget.
Let's go ahead and make sure we have permission to use the Internet in this app so we're going on your
tag here for users permission.
We want the Internet and we'll go ahead put our closing tag there.
Excellent.
Now with that in place we can move forward with getting our list view set up so we've done this a million
times.
First thing that we need is an array list so let's go ahead and make one of those.
So we want an array list of string objects and we're going to call this the titles and this will be
equal to a new array list.
Excellent.
From there we want to create an array adapter so we'll go ahead and get one of these that we'll just
simply call array adapter and we will set that up yet.
That will be in this on create.
So with that in place let's go ahead and get access to that list view.
So we're going to say List View give it the name of lower case list view is equal to or find you by
ID are not ID dot list view.
OK so we've got that in place.
Next thing we do is set up that array adapter so will say array adapters equal to a new array adapter
past four this is context.
Android are lay out dot simple list item one will go ahead and pass that array called titles.
So I guess the array adapter all set up then the next thing we need to do is just set the adapter sort
of site list you set adapter and we'll pass in our array adapter.
Simple enough right.
So let's go ahead and hit run.
I know it's going to take a second for the emulator to get up and running and there's really not much
to look at right now because we don't have anything even in the array.
But we at least want to just know that the app can work.
So while that is going let's go ahead and move on to our next big task and that's that because we're
working with an API.
No we haven't done this since last section but we need to go create something that extends async task
right we'll make our own download task or whatever it is that we want to call it so we can go get the
appropriate data.
So while we're still within this main activity class we want to make our own class here so we're going
to say public class and you can call this whatever you want.
I'm going to call it download task.
I think that kind of just represents what we're going for and this is going to you know we're going
to first use this to go get the list of all the IDs right.
Remember where was that all the top stories right.
That gives us all these and then we're going to go use it to get the specific news items and whatnot
so this can be used in a couple of different ways.
But this is going to extend async a scene I'm still in this room a sink task just like that.
And we want to be able to pass on a string you know for the updates and then we'll go ahead and have
somehow open preferences I don't know how that happened and then we'll have it return a string at the
end there.
OK so we're going to have all those pieces.
And with that in place that should allow us the chance to go ahead and implement some methods here although
I think Android studio is just taking a second here because it's trying to get the emulator up and running
here but let's see hover over this unexpected token though we have and I think taskin a void not know
that's why it's freaking out of me.
OK.
When you think the computer is wrong it's almost never wrong it's almost always you will go ahead and
with this hit our red light bulbs they implement the methods we want that mice do in background.
OK.
So with this let's go ahead and write the code so that we can then you know get to an appropriate neuro.
So with this first thing we need to do is have a string set aside for the result to set that equal to
an empty string.
And let's check this emulator looks like the app is fine there's nothing on the list view but that's
because we haven't added anything so that's that's good.
The next thing we need is your whole object that we will simply call you l and we need to create an
h t t p your L connection that we will call your real connection.
Excellent and let's actually go ahead and just set that equal to know to start off and once we have
these three things in place then we need to do a try catch where we actually try and get something from
that you are well and you know start an input stream all that good stuff.
So let's go and start a try catch it or try it.
Let's make our catch and we're going to take an exception and if case something goes wrong here let's
go ahead and print it out.
All right.
Now inside of this try first we are going to take a u r l r u r l object here and we're going to try
and convert the string so we're going to say new you r l object just like this.
Now for this Usually we'd like to change this to say your L's kind of make it a little bit more readable
here and I'll say are else does give us the item at position Zero came Satel hopefully create your own
object if not the catch will take care of that.
After that we are going to set up our your connection.
We're going to say this is equal to.
We want to do your l dot open connection.
Now we got to make sure we cast this to the appropriate HTP
your whole connection.
Excellent.
And I'm going to go ahead and move cause that left side give us some space to work with here.
Next thing that we need is an input stream.
So that's two capital input stream.
I call that lower case input stream is equal to your L connection dot and this is where we need to get
the input stream.
And after we've done that we need an input stream reader so input stream reader will call that lower
case input stream reader is equal to a new capital input stream reader.
And once we have that in place we now have to insert our input stream.
We get called input stream.
I mean you do those names it kind of helps keeps things a little bit easier to work with.
All right so now that we have that let's go ahead and make our new data.
This is going to allow us to parse through each bit of data that we need.
So we're going to say input stream reader dot and read just like that.
This is where we'll set up our cool little while loop that goes through this until we run out of information
and we'll say data not equal to negative 1.
Then go ahead and do the following.
So we get a character for the current piece of data that we're looking at so we're going to say this
into a character just take whatever's inside of data then we're going to take our results and say OK
we're going to add on to you with a plus or equals whatever current is that'll will slowly build up
that string and then we'll take our data and move onto the next one by saying data is equal to our input
stream reader not read we're just essentially takes us to the next item.
All right.
So once all of this is done we're going to go ahead and log out this information.
So let's just do a log.
And we'll just say you are all content and then we'll go ahead and specify whatever it is that we got
back in the result.
So go ahead and specify that right there.
We also want to make sure that we actually return what we get back from that.
So because right now we're just saying return no.
But after we've gone through the whole while loop there we'll go ahead and return the result just like
that.
Okay.
So with this in place we want to you know test it to see if it works out.
So let's go ahead and move up to our uncreate and let's see.
We are getting an error here because we are returning before that is saying it's an unreachable statement.
Thank you android studio.
The order of that does matter.
But now we can go to this on create method and we can get some information.
So before we set up the Saray adapter and all that good stuff let's go ahead and make it so that we
can create a new download task and let's in fact just do this before all the list view and all that
we want to keep these things together.
In fact I'm just going to kind of get rid of some of the spaces so we know that's a group so we want
to start a new download task which I'm going to call task and I'm going to set this equal to and you
download task just like that.
Once we have that in place we're going to have to do a try catch for executing this so go ahead and
get that set up.
Came with all of that in place you want to take this task that we just created and we're going to do
dot execute and we're going to pass a string.
So remember this is where we first want to try the hacker news you are l to go and get all the top stories
so let's go back to Safari here.
And remember we want to scroll down till we get that call that gives us all the latest stuff.
So it's the new top and best stories so this one right here.
There's top stories new stories best stories I think.
Top stories is what we're looking for.
So if we go ahead and click on this that's the oil that we're looking for.
So let's just go ahead and copy this your l.
Exactly.
And we're going to come back to android studio and simply paste that and right there.
OK.
So with that in place let's go ahead and run this we should see and log cat because we are logging it
down here.
All those the big string of IDS which then we need to go get the information for.
So let's open up log cat here and we'll scroll.
Let's see.
And look at that your aerial content.
Look there's all those IDs and they just go and go and go and go and go.
So that's great.
Well we're at a pretty good point here right.
Like we have all these ideas really the next step for us is we need to go take this information and
then go get the actual news stories for them at least.
You know you are all of that story the title of that story and then from there we can go get the actual
age Tim l4.
But the next step we need to get like the title and the URL.
So in order to do that let's go ahead and move back to our main activity here as we're going through
this data we get it back as a string but we actually want to process that as some Jaison data right.
And so let's go ahead after this wall statement.
We're going to create a saw an array and let's just go ahead and call this maybe just lowercase J sunray
say this is new Jason Horray and we're going to pass in our result string.
So the idea here is we're going to take the string that is a you know is an actual array of things actually
turn into adjacent arrays so that we could loop through stuff.
So we kind of have to choose how many different items we want to work with.
I know we get back I think the API said 30 but let's keep things simple and just work with 20 because
the more things that we have the more things we have to download and we can kind of just be a little
bit of tough work and we can in our testing keep it a low number and then in the actual app you can
bump it up.
That's the nice thing about making a variable like this.
You can always change what it should be.
But let's just go ahead and call it something like number of items will set this equal to 20 for now
and then when we're going to do is let's do an if statement and we're going to check and make sure that
we have at least enough of these so we're going to say all right if Jason Auray dot length is less than
20 then we want to take our number of items and set that equal to Jason Auray length.
So for some reason I don't think this would happen.
But you know we get back 15 items right.
So we're saying OK if there's less than 20 items that we just say the number of items equal to whatever
the length is.
So this is just kind of putting a max cap on things and just making sure everything's OK there.
Now once we have that in place let's do a for loop where we can loop through all of these items.
So we'll get our four loops set up.
Let's do our classic where you know we have the entire eye and you know moving through saurian say implies
equal to zero.
And while I is less than the number of items I want to do on a plus plus can.
So with this in place let's go ahead and fill in the rest that we need here.
So the first thing that we want to do through when we're looping through is we want to see what items
it is that we can find and the first thing that we've got to do is we've got to get the article ID.
So we're going to say string article ID and we're going to set this equal to our Jason array and get
the string at whatever particular index that we're at.
So this put the high right in there.
So for example if we're looking at the API this will grab the very first item right here.
So once we have that in place let's get back to android studio here.
The next step that we want to do is we want to get the URL for the particular article.
So for that particular ID so we're going to say your L is equal to a new capital you are now.
And inside of here we want to pass in a string.
So let's go back to the API ones that are back button real quick.
And again remember if we scroll to the top.
We're looking for something like this right where we can give some sort of ID in this case it's 8 8
6 3.
And so it's going to give us back the title The YOUR all that good information who want to copy this
L come back to android studio paste that end.
But instead of having this 8 8 6 3 that should be whatever article ideas so go ahead and break up the
string right there and we'll just do a plus in between the two of those can.
And the thing that will go on and add right smack dab in the middle is our article Id say.
So it gives us a new york deal with this article ID ready to go grab that particular piece of information
then we're going to go.
Want to run this basically the same code that we had before right.
We want to make a New York connection and you know get this data do the input stream reader all that
good stuff so let's just go ahead and copy that big chunk and we'll paste it down below.
Now we don't need to recreate the input stream so we'll just go ahead and delete that again input stream
reader.
We're just going to go ahead and make it so we're not recreating those for the first time.
Same thing goes with data and then we can go through read all the stuff.
And if this all worked we should be able to get some article info so we're going to go ahead and log
out information about the articles all say article info and we're going to go ahead and spit out whatever
result is here.
OK.
Now I'm sensing something that we're going to have a problem with and that's that after we've completed
this if we keep changing what this is it could it could get confusing with the resoled stuff right.
Especially if we're Retrying a return result after that.
So let's say rather than result we're going to make a new string that's going to be called Article info.
So let's make a new string.
I'm going to call it article info and I'll set this equal to an empty string.
OK.
And then we'll take this article info and we'll do that and then we can print out whatever article info
is supposed to be and that will just make things a little bit easier to work with here.
So with that in place let's go ahead and run our app and see what it looks like.
OK.
So go ahead and get log cat open here ready to rock n roll for emulator to open up.
OK so here it comes.
Boom.
Look at that.
We are printing out a ton of stuff.
So it went and got.
You can see at the very end there print out results which was all the ideas but then also when got all
these new stories how to explain your tech jobs your family during the holidays.
That's kind of funny.
Did you go for it.
No.
Yes.
Lightning makes new.
I still have no idea what that was about you Theertham now handles more transactions than all digital
currencies combined.
That's kind of cool.
And that's why I like Hacker News.
You know there's all sorts of interesting stuff on here.
But we now got these articles and really just the next step for us is we want to pull out two pieces
of information that's the title and the are are.
Those are the two pieces of information that we're looking for.
So let's go ahead and write the code to grab those.
All right so let's go ahead and down here rather than just printing out the article in FOL Let's go
ahead and parse through this information.
So our first step is going to be to turn this into a Jaison object.
So go ahead type out Jason object and we'll just call it lowercase J some object and we'll say this
is equal to a new capital Jaison object and let's pass in the article info right.
That's that string.
So we've just compiled that we had logging out.
So once we have that piece of information then let's make sure we have both a title and a you are l
ready to rock n roll.
It's important that we check this because you know for some instance me one of the articles doesn't
have a your L or something like that.
We want to make sure that that is the case.
So we're going to say we're going to check on our Jason object that we have.
We're going to say Dot is no.
No we're going to check it for a particular item so in this case we're going to say title.
So we're going to put the exclamation point to say as long as this is not normal.
And we also want to confirm that the R L is there so we're going to do.
Exclamation point J some object.
Dot is no.
And again we'll pass inside of here.
Lowercase u r l.
All right.
So with that in there we now know for sure that there is a title and a u r l that we can work with so
we can go ahead and pull those two things out.
So let's first make a string for our article title and we're going to set this equal to or Jason object
and then we want to get to the string for title all lowercase there gang.
Next we want to go ahead and get the article you or else we're going to do a string particle u r l and
we're going to say that this is equal to our J song not a saw an object dot get string.
In this case we'll pass in lowercase.
You are ill in a semi-colon.
So with those two pieces in place let's go ahead and log out make sure we're getting what it is that
we're hoping for some will say log I am going to say the title and your L and the second piece that
will provide in there is the article.
Got to spell it correctly.
Article title.
No I didn't spell it correctly over here.
Article title
see the plus the article you so have those two pieces of information that will go ahead and print out.
And I'm really botching it here on the spelling.
But there we go.
That's finally going to show out that information.
So let's go ahead and run this and make sure that we're getting the title title and the your all all
printed out and so if we have that that means we have those two pieces of information really just the
last step for us is that we have to you know go download that information so let's get Lague can't open
up here and help.
Looks like Arap already opened up and there was art content there.
And here we're printing out.
This looks like it's from last time.
Let's go ahead and run this one more time.
So run this know we didn't see a change down here so we need to reconnect this to the new emulator.
There we go.
Now after doing this look at that for a title and you are well we've got these beautiful titles and
then we've got the that you are all showing up.
That's exactly perfect this is what we wanted.
This is looking great.
So now that we have that in place like I said the next step for us is really and I know we've done a
lot of you know Internet data processing here we just got to do one more step and that's where we're
going to take this title and that's your goal and we're going to go download the appropriate information
for this.
So after we've got the article you are your the article title we're going to pass at least the U R L
into R U R L object when I say you are l is equal to capital U R L and inside of they're going to pass
the call your own.
Excellent.
And with that in place we're going to reset up that your real connection so I'll say here and let's
see oh this needs to be a new york.
That's why we're getting some errors there.
Your connection will take that you are all that we just made and say open connection and once we've
gone ahead and done that we're going to have to cast this so we'll say HTP your connection looks good.
All right.
Once we have the moral connection then we have to get our input stream.
So we're going to say input stream you are equal to our your old connection dot input excuse me get
your input stream.
Then once we have that we need to set up the input stream reader.
So we're going to say input stream reader is equal to.
And this is where we get a new input stream reader and we're going to pass in our existing input stream.
Excellent.
Then after we've done this then we want to get our data set up so we're going to say data is equal to
our input stream reader read.
OK.
So we've gone ahead and gotten that in place then we need to have a new string that represents the email
mail from the article so maybe let's call this article content and we'll say this is equal to an empty
string.
At least for the time being.
And then we'll just do our classic while loop here this will be the last one for us where we go ahead
and get all the data so we're going to say as long as data's not equal to negative 1.
That means it's stopped out and we're going to go get a character which we're going to call current
We say this is equal to char data and then we're going to add this onto our article content say article
content plus equals.
We're going to pass on current there and then we'll finish up by saying hey data you need to go ahead
and move onto the next one so we'll get our input stream reader say not read anything.
That will go ahead and get that information.
Now to make sure that this is all working we want to go ahead and log out this information or say log
done.
And I'll say maybe I'll just call this H2 your mail and we want to pass forward the article content.
Now this is going to take a little bit of time because you know this one where it works.
If you think about this were first hitting the API for all the article IDs once we do that we go and
get all the information for each of those IDs which gives us a title and a u r l and then now we are
going forward in getting all the h t M-L for each of those individual Web sites so there's a lot of
different calls that are kind of going out to the Internet.
So I mean you'll actually see if we just open up log cat here it's expected that this is going to take
a little bit of time and you know we might not see results immediately so go ahead and give this a second
here to get to its place and we will come back.
So it took some time but finally we got a ton of e-mail showing up here and this is great because this
means we went in for each of those individual individual articles we have the title now we have the
aids team mail that we got via the u r l We data wise have everything that we need now in order to finish
our app we need to make a list view that shows all the different articles and that needs to be stored
inside of our eschewing database which at this point we don't even have an ask.
Well database to work with so there's a couple of steps that we've got to go and even from there we've
got to go create a new city so that when someone wants to view this that they can go ahead and do that.
So let's go ahead and get to the top of the page here.
There's a few extra things that we want to set up here.
So the first one is we want to have a database where we can store all this information.
So let's make it new as well.
Light database and we're going to go ahead and call this art KOLs D-B case or just go ahead and saying
we want to define that then we'll come down here and in our actual code we'll go get this all set up.
So and let's do this before we go and hit any sort of download tasks because we want to make sure the
database is ready before we go and do that.
So what we're going to do is first take our articles TV and we're going to set this up by saying we
want this to be equal to this open or create database and we'll just give it the name of capital articles.
OK.
And we want to pass in capital mode private.
And we also want to say no here at the banks we don't need any sort of special handling.
All right.
With that in place the next thing that we need to do is do an execute a statement to say hey you know
let's go ahead and get the table set up for all this.
So articles divi got execute as well and the string that we're going to put inside of here is would
be ready because we got a lot of typing create to make sure this is ALL CAPS.
I'm turning my capsulize make this a little bit easier.
Create table if not exists.
And now in lower case we're going to say lowercase articles back to our upper case excuse me we're going
to do print this is to say what this is going to consist of.
So we're going to have I.D. which we want to be an integer and not only that it's also going to be our
primary key.
Remember when we learned about that does some auto incrementing stuff really great.
Next thing that we're looking for is we want to have the article ID and we're going to have this be
just integer k and we've got that in place.
The next thing that we're looking for is a title that's just going to be a VAR char Akkad the databases
version of a string.
And then the last thing that we need is content.
This is essentially going to hold that string of HVM now.
And this is also going to be a VAR char.
So we'll just go ahead and plop that in.
So with all that information in place we now have everything that we need in order to get the table
all set up.
Okay.
And then you know we want to go about creating you know this is fine now to go do hit up this your L
for all that information.
So the next step for us is after we've gone and gotten that information we need to be storing that inside
the database so we're going to move down here all the way to where we've gotten our article content
because that means we've essentially gotten everything that we need.
And the first thing that we're going to do is we're going to make a string of some as well content that
we want to do and I'm going to show you how to pass some data into an Eskew well line of code this will
be pretty neat.
So we're going to make a new string or we'll just call lower case as well.
And this will be equal to say insert into lowercase articles.
Make sure you have the s on there.
And we're going to pass through what we want to add so we want to say what the article ID is.
We also want to say what the title is going to be.
And we also want to specify the content.
And so if we scroll up here to the top we had set this up right.
We don't need to set the ID but these three things article ID title on content we do want to set those
up.
So I'll say those are the three things that we want to pass in.
And then if you remember you have to say values and then specify in parentheses what it is that you
want to add.
And this is where things get a little bit tricky or just a question mark comma question mark comma question
mark and what we're going to do is we're going to then add in appropriate information in here so that
it will go and add the appropriate data.
So with this in place we're going to create a new kind of object code as well.
Light statement.
So I ask you how light statement and we can just go ahead and call this statement and say this is equal
to our articles D-B not we want to do compile statement and we need to pass at some sort of strings.
So that's going to be our string here called as well.
And once we have this in place we're now going to start passing in information so we're going to say
statement does it bind string.
And this is where we're going to pass in the appropriate information so you need to say where what position
you're passing this and that and it's not a zero based counting it's one to one based counting system
so we're going to start with one that's the index and then we need to provide a string.
So in this case the first thing that we want to pass through is an article ID.
So we're going to pass through article ID.
Simple as that.
And I'm going to just go ahead and copy and paste this two more times so I can properly add in title
and content.
So for index number 2 which should be title we're going to go ahead and pass an article not article
article title.
Excellent.
And then for index number three the last one we want the content.
So that is going to be this article content that we just took all that code to get soring take article
content and pass that in.
OK so once we have this we're going to take this and say statement.
Execute and you might be wondering well why do we go through all the worry of passing these things here
into an eschewing light statement and you know having to put those them in that position.
Well because you know like we could have just said hey make some make a string and put this all together
but by doing this as cue a light statement it protects our database in case we accidentally put something
then that would try to delete our database because this is life code that's going into our database.
There's other things that we'd want to consider here that you know with HCM there might be something
that breaks the string up there's just all sorts of situations in which we would want to make sure that
this is all OK.
So with that in place this should insert everything we need in there and each time we run the app we
want to make sure that if we're going to go hit up all this information before we do we clear out the
table.
So let's go ahead and before we go loop through each of the items let's just execute a statement so
we're going to say articles D-B execute as well.
And inside of here we're going to say all caps delete from
and we want lowercase articles.
That's the table that we're going to be deleting from Ken.
So with all this in place we should be in a pretty good position for storing some information but we
need to have a way to update our app whenever we get this new information.
So we are going to make a new method here so let's do this below the uncreate.
We're just going to say public void and the function or method that we want to create is called update
list view.
So this is going to allow us to just make sure everything's all up to date.
Ready to rock and roll.
So the first thing that we got to do is you know we essentially want to get stuff out of the database
get it into the appropriate arrays and then display that to the user.
So what we're going to do first is get a cursor that we'll call.
And this is going to be equal to articles D.B dot RA query.
Remember this is how we pull things out.
You want to say select star which is the same as select everything from articles.
OK.
And we'll go ahead and for the second parameter we're going to pass in.
No.
And once we have that in place we want to go ahead and get you know have a way to get to the content
in the title.
Those are the main two things that we want to pull from our database.
We also have an article ID but we're not particularly concerned about that right now.
So we need to make indexes for those who are going to say content index is equal to the DOT get column
index for content just like that.
And we're going to say inte title index is equal to see get the column index for a title.
All right.
So now that we have those two things in place we're going to go ahead and start moving through.
So the first thing that we want to check here is we're going to do an if statement make sure that we
have something that we can appropriately do.
So we're going to say See move to first.
So as long as that works out we're going to first take our titles array and we're going to go ahead
and clear everything out of there.
Next we need to have a content R-ALA So we're actually just going to go ahead and copy this right here
pace it down below.
We need to make a new parathas called content.
All right.
So with that we're going to say content dot clear clear out whatever we have inside of there then we're
going to do a dual.
While loops so this is a little bit different from a while loop in that we do the code first then we
do the while statement to check if things are working it's essentially the same it just sort of checks
things in different order so we have a do with curly brackets.
And then a while where in parentheses We're checking a particular situation and this one we have seen
not move to first.
So we'll go ahead and do that and then we want to do inside of here is just fill up those titles and
content arrays so we're going to say titles dot add.
And what we want to add is see Dot get strain and we're going to pass in the title index boom just like
that we're filling it up and we're going to take our content array list and and we're going to add and
see get string and we are going to pass in the content index.
So we'll go ahead and put in those two pieces of information and once we loop through all those things
where want to go ahead and take our array adapter and say hey you've got some new information.
So we're going to do notify data set change and that should prompted to say I need to go update all
of this information.
So now that we have this function called update list view we have to call it in the appropriate places.
So the first one is going to be inside of our on create.
So after we've got all this information up ready to rock and roll like the databases and whatnot we're
going to go ahead and say all right update list view.
That's one place that we're going to want to run this and the next one is if we scroll down on our download
task class here we're going to go all the way down here so you know the big function that we have here
is called do in background remember there's a nother function that we can add which is called on post
execute and this gets run at the very end.
So with this we're going to just call update list view right there because that saying hey after everything's
finished let's go ahead an update list view so that we get all the appropriate information.
So big moment of truth here.
Let's go ahead and give this a run.
Like I said earlier this will be a little bit tricky because you know there's so many different articles
it's got to go out and get there.
So it's going to take a little bit of time to get that information.
But let's see.
No such table articles.
I believe I've done some misspelling here.
So let's go ahead and make sure I've got this all correct.
Let's see our articles.
That should fix it.
Let's go ahead and give us a run what you yet now.
OK Luckily I asked you a light has some pretty good logs so that when I make some mistakes there's a
chance for me to recover from those.
So we'll have our app open here because the idea is that you know as new information comes through that
we'll get that although we're going to have to wait for all of the data to come through.
So this could take some time.
I'm going to go ahead and pause the video and come back when this is finished.
Well you look at my spelling killed me again in our insert statement I accidentally misspelled article
so I've got articles one more time and I'm going to looks like I've misspelled this a couple of places
so article ID.
That all looks fine.
I've got articles there.
Let's make sure up at the top here.
That's all good articles.
Yeah.
OK articles articles article ID.
You know this should be all better.
I wouldn't be surprised if we come back here.
But again let me pause this now should go get that data.
So I decided while we're waiting for this to load here it might be worth going ahead and moving on to
the next step and just working on that next activity that we're going to create.
So let's go ahead and inside of our app here let's make that new activity we'll say file new activity.
Let's just pick one from the gallery.
We want an empty activity.
And let's go ahead and give this the name of maybe something like art and whole activity.
So once we go ahead and hit finish on that this is going to add that new activity for us and this new
activity this is where we're going to display the HCM l right.
So the idea here is that you know there's this list of articles you can see all the titles of them and
if someone taps on one of these then you could go over and see the HVM for it.
Right.
And so when they're all listed out we would want to see that information.
So let's go ahead and visually get working on this and then we'll do the code side of things.
So let's give ourselves a little bit of space to work with here and all that we're essentially wanting
to do here is we just want to have a nice big web view inside of all of this.
So let's go ahead and see.
There we go inside of containers.
We've had a web view.
So I'm just going to pull that out.
Luckily Naturally this fills up almost the whole screen so let's just go ahead and add some constraints
to make that official and I'll just give this the ID of web view and that should be appropriate there.
Now with this information in place we're ready to go ahead and actually write some code for this.
So the first thing that we want to do is get access to that web view.
So say web view and we'll just call it web view as equal to find view by id Capitol our DOT ID dot and
then we want to get web view.
There we go.
The next thing that we want to do is we want to get the web view all set up so will say web view dot
and we're going to go ahead and say get some jeans on this make sure javascript does and they've also
said javascript enabled equal to true.
The next thing that we want to do with this web view is we want to say okay set web view client.
Remember this is important because if not it's going to launch the user's own browser which we want
the user to be able to quickly move back and forth.
So we can say new web view client is like to capitalize that new web view client.
And there we go that's enough to get started there.
Now with this information in place there's a little bit more that we have to do.
So the big one is we have to have an intent created that's going to contain some information about you
know the your L or that rather the H.T. mail that we're passing over.
So let's go back to our main activity and we're going to go to our on create method here.
So at the top after we've created the list view and set the adapter all that good stuff then we have
to make it so that if someone clicks on one of these that we know can move over to this new activity.
So we're going to say list few dot and then we want to set on item click Lisner make sure you don't
do the long click listener or else you're going to be trying and trying to never get anything.
So they knew what to do.
Adapter view on item click listener gives us a nice function to work with.
And we want to make a new intent and say intent will call intent is equal to a new capital intent.
And within that we want to get the application context.
After that we want to get say where it is that we're moving to and that is the article
misspellings.
Again we want to go to the article activity class.
OK.
So now the content knows where it's supposed to go to.
Now we want to give it the age e-mail that it needs to move forward so we're going to say intent dot
and we're going to put extra and the answer that we want to put in there first has the name of content.
Remember this is the H.T. mail.
Now to get that each e-mail simple as just sayin content which is our rainless dot get and we're going
to pass it on.
Which is the index of whatever item in the list view is that they tapped on.
So with those two pieces in place we can go ahead and start the activity by simply passing that intent
and then it should move us over to the new activity.
Right.
And then we can see that information.
So let's go ahead and move over back to Article activity and once we are here this is where we can write
some code to go ahead and get the intent and have that information displayed.
So we're going to say we're going to make a new object called intent.
There should be equal to get intent just like that.
And then we're going to say web view on load data and this is where we'll go get the information from
the intents are going to say intent not get string extra.
We're looking for lower case content there that should have all of that and then we're going to simply
say the type is a tech slash HMO or lower case there and the encoding is going to be UTF dash it.
Okay.
So with that in place there should be all the information needs so when someone clicks on one of them
that will come through to the next screen and have a display and a web view.
Now an issue that we're going to have here as you can see we still haven't gotten this list view to
show up like it's really taking a long time to go get all this HVM T.M. data.
And so what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and re run the sap except one important thing
I wanted to do there so I'm going to wait till the starts and I'm going to hit the stop button because
we should already have some information saved.
I'm going to go ahead hit the X here.
Try and stop this process.
There we go.
So if we can go back to our main activity here what I want to do is this next time we run the app I
don't want to do this task execute because you already have some information state saved inside of the
database so let's go ahead and run this now and this time we're not going to go hit the API because
hopefully we have some of these articles saved inside.
So let's go ahead and see what this looks like on our emulator.
And oh we've got an issue here.
So there's a couple of issues that we need to fix.
The first one is here inside of this update list view.
When we say CDATA moved a first inside of this wall loop and it needs to be sealed up move to next.
When I said set up moved to first it just kept looping over and over and over and that's why we had
memory issues.
So that needs to be fixed but also in this update list view we say array adapter dot notify data set
changed yet up here in our create we are creating the array adapter here and we are calling update list
view up there.
So we're going to wait and call this update list view all the way here at the bottom so that we don't
run into those issues that can then appropriately talk to a re adapter.
So with those two pieces of information in place and now that we've got all the activity set up that
you know we can move to the next activity.
Let's run this emulator one more time.
Hopefully we'll get some good results here.
And you can see we don't have the full 20 but it was you know taken a while so let's see S-sh versus
open VPM for tunneling.
We go ahead and click on this.
It opens up a new web browser and look at that.
We can goal go ahead and move through.
And you know see it all that information.
I fell down a bit of a runes research rabbit hole today let's go ahead and see what this is all about.
And look something here from Twitter.
Now it's important to note that our app has access to the Internet and that's how it's downloading all
these images and stuff.
If we you know you had downloaded all these articles to go view at a different time and you didn't have
data like you wouldn't see these images you wouldn't see the cool CSSA javascript that comes along with
these so it's you know an interesting point.
For example this one I don't know if that's just what the Web site looks like but the word we're not
seeing all the data come through so I'm not sure what the situation is there maybe just the website
is broke because everything else is looking good here but there you have it.
So we have a completed news reader app.
Again we had a little bit of issue with it taking a long time to download those articles you'll learn
as we move through the course more efficient ways to go about doing that.
Hopefully you enjoyed learning that.